---
title: Fear
date: 2014-09-16 11:30 UTC
color_scheme: belize-hole
tags: fear hope love personal
published: false
---

> You gain strength, and courage, and confidence by every experience
> in which you really stop to look feaer in the face. You are able
> to say to yourself, "I lived through this horror. I can take the
> next thing that comes along."
> <cite>Eleanor Roosevelt</cite>

For me, fear is a nearly constant companion and antagonist. I have
spent the majority of my life (adult and child) running from my fears
instead of running towards my goals and dreams. *Strangely, these two
things look very similar to an outside observer*. I've been
complimented on how driven, determined, capable, and confident I am. I
can only smile and accept these compliments while internally thinking
"If you really knew me you wouldn't like what you see and you wouldn't
be saying that."

Throughout my life I have pre-rejected myself for many opportunities
because I listened to the fear and doubt in the back of my mind. This
is still a constant struggle for me. Even when I take the first step I
feel anxiety that I'm kidding myself. I really don't have any business
doing what I'm attempting to do. I'm not good enough. Some people call
this "Imposter Syndrome" but for me its much deeper and more pervasive
than that. On top of the fear that I will jump in over my head and be
discovered as a fraud (despite plenty of proof that I'm capable) I
have an overwhelming fear of not being good enough, or likeable, or
lovable in general. As a human being I am flawed.

I carried this burden for many years without even knowing it. When I
finally became aware of it, through the help of people who love me,
not through some kind of introspective process, I realized what an
incredible burden it was. I also became aware of how difficult
(impossible?) it was to put that burden down.

Last night while I was working out the thought occurred to me that I
_DO_ have a small circle of friends who know everything there is to
know about me: the good, the bad, and the ugly. They are still there
for me, they still care about me, they still love me. Are all those
people wrong or is my thinking flawed? Occam's razor at work! Its
hard/impossible for me to see this sometimes but its an incredibly
comforting feeling.

I didn't write this post to broadcast to the world that I've turned
over a new leaf and from now on I'm going to be brave and bold and
ignore my fears. That simply isn't the case. My fears are a part of me
and they go where I go. I'm learning to grapple with my fears and
flawed core beliefs in a healthy way but the road is long and steep.
I wrote this because it is a part of me that I don't want to be
ashamed of anymore and by putting it out into the ether I'm going to
take the power away from it.
